---
layout:   docs
title:    Try it now
email_required: true
description: Instructions for getting started with ApiAxle.
---

Watch this
[screencast describing how to install ApiAxle](http://blog.apiaxle.com/post/installation-screencast/) by running through the below instructions.

If you would like us to do this for you then [get in touch](mailto:support@apiaxle.com).

## Prerequisites

### Base system

There are some base libraries you will need on a fresh install. Ubuntu
users might want to make sure the following has been run:

    $ sudo apt-get install python-software-properties \
            build-essential \
            libxml2-dev

### Node.js

Only versions **0.10** and above are supported. Here's the official
[documentation](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installation).

Ubuntu users
[can use this PPA](https://launchpad.net/~chris-lea/+archive/node.js/). Which
would have you do the following:

    $ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.js
    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs

### Redis

Redis is an advanced key/value store. It's where ApiAxle stores its
data. Find [the installation instructions](http://redis.io/download)
on redis.io. Ubuntu users:

    $ sudo apt-get install redis-server

## ApiAxle

With the above finished you should just be able to do this:

    $ sudo npm install -g apiaxle-repl \
           apiaxle-proxy \
           apiaxle-api

Now those commands exist in your `PATH`.

### Trying it with your API

Lets say you want to put your brand new AcmeApi (running at
`localhost:5000`) behind a proxy. Here's how you might do it:

Start the proxy service with this command:

    $ apiaxle-proxy -f 1 -p 3000 -q

It'll now listen on port `3000`, fork once (`-f 1`) and will process
it's own events (more on that below). If you now hit
http://localhost:3000/ you'll get an `ApiUnknown` error
message. That's because ApiAxle decides which API you want to use via
subdomains. Put this line in your `/etc/hosts` file:

    127.0.0.1 acme.api.localhost

Now when you hit http://acme.api.localhost:3000/ you'll see the
same error but with a slightly different message. That's because
ApiAxle doesn't know *how* to call acme. Open the apiaxle repl:

    $ apiaxle

and then run these commands:

    axle> api "acme" create endPoint="localhost:5000"

Now create and link an API key:

    axle> key "1234" create
    axle> api acme linkkey "1234"

Now try calling the graph API with any of the options you know it
accepts. Here's an example that will print our my information:

    $ curl 'http://acme.api.localhost:3000/users?api_key=1234'

Try it without the key and you'll get an error. If you try to hit the
API more that twice a second you'll get a Qps error.

Under the hood this has been translated to `graph.acme.com/users`.

### The event processor

apiaxle-proxy ships with a tool called `apiaxle-proxy-event-processor`
which, assuming you haven't started the proxy itself with the `-q`
parameter, will listen out for hits and errors from the proxy and
process them in a separate process. This makes scaling much easier as
the bulk of the work happens when processing statistics.

### Moving past the testing

You can now tell nginx to pass through the `Host` header to represent
your API like this:

    # put as many Axle instances in here as you like
    upstream apiaxle_cluster {
      server 127.0.0.1:3000;
      server 127.0.0.1:3001;
      server 127.0.0.1:3002;
      server 127.0.0.1:3003;
    }

    server {
      listen 80;
      server_name api.acme.com;

      location / {
        proxy_pass http://apiaxle_cluster;
        proxy_set_header Host "acme.api.localhost";
      }
    }

Have a look in
[this directory](https://github.com/apiaxle/apiaxle/tree/develop/thirdparty-conf)
for some Nginx and supervisord example configuration which are
production suitable.
