---
layout: docs
title: Keyrings - ApiAxle
---

Keyrings have been around in ApiAxle for a while now but they took a
bit of a back seat until we got them working with the statistics
system. The release of `1.9.14` brings with it keyring statistics
support. Here's an overview of what it is and how it might be useful:

## What's a keyring?

A keyring is simply a way of grouping keys. Say your API is used by
many companies each of which have many users (keys). If you want to
bill the company based on their overall usage then keyrings are ideal
for you.

Keyrings don't have a relationship with APIs (though, they might in
the future). Instead they only know about the keys themselves, this
means that a keyring could contain keys that have access to two
different APIs.

## How do I create them?

ApiAxle API-wise you would first
[use the create call](http://apiaxle.com/api.html#/v1/keyring/:keyring). Then
use
[the linkkey](http://apiaxle.com/api.html#/v1/keyring/:keyring/linkkey/:key)
command to add a key to it. Once you've done that and member keys have
been hitting the API you can
[view the statistics](http://apiaxle.com/api.html#/v1/keyring/:keyring/stats).

The REPL equivalent would be (assuming keys `f7964f1` and `1d2f58d9`
exist):

    axle> keyring "ibm" create
    axle> keyring "ibm" linkkey "1d2f58d9"
    axle> keyring "ibm" linkkey "f7964f1"

Some usage later...

    axle> keyring "ibm" stats

## How do keyrings work with the statistics?

When keys are used to make calls to an API the keyrings they are
attached to get the same style of aggregated statistics as the APIs
and keys.

You can narrow the statistics by key and API with the `forkey` and
`forapi` query parameters respectively.
